so we are inside me change my four desks
right now I just want to give us shut up
the gardening team they really do make
an effort to make doing report you don't
shave my talent in much more pleasant
experience the gardening in the parking
lot and even the garden here in 2005's a
bonus Yin - security aren't the official
board where they post the cases being
heard for the day the run of various
categories these uses a list of names
and dates and what have you and I can
flip up a few pages there you go my name
and my name in lights
Asuma Zard mr. Lee Jones - that's how
you figure out which room your bookcase
is in when you show up to the case in
our case enjoyment and that's it alright
obviously I'm not allowed to film inside
the courtroom during the proceedings but
you actually good sense to us through
the window
gives you a sense of what it feels like
in Chiang Mai so we are not hanging out
in front of the moderately beautiful
chain my courthouse some monumental
architecture here's my best girl Melissa
and these again just credit to the
gardening staff these are actually
orchids that is not in bloom so got some
workers on the tree right now so I tried
to make that a little bit more dramatic
for you there Melissa
the day in court says it wasn't entirely
boring why don't you give the viewers
your own assessment is anything you were
wildly I don't think it being wildly
inaccurate was anything wrong about just
clarified what happened legally but yes
you were able to give a statement I come
here for justice vivo this has affected
my Roman statement about the called me a
sexual predator at a pedophile right I
was working as a teacher teaching kids
this is affected my life directly this
is pointed out this is my girlfriend
right see you were you were called in as
a prop
you were alluded to in important ways
you you stood up as a kind of indirect
witness yeah yeah you said when we were
first getting together that my brothers
and my parents looked you up online and
saw these accusations from durianrider
yep and then also he said once I go to
Canada this will affect my ability to
get a job in the future I would say that
carries some weight in terms of Thai
traditional culture you know the idea of
having to having to talk to your parents
having to talk to you especially the
older brothers they did that your
parents and brothers are scrutinizing me
and think I'm not I think I'm a criminal
because of this definition yeah that was
that was part one where I got to stand
up and speak right well and then what
happened that you may not have figured
this out you notice the the judges there
were two judges who now been involved in
this case for a year and a half also so
for during writer he doesn't and a
chance to defend himself I mean the
facts of the case are already proven and
these these hearings but you know the
judges they were reading into this
peculiar microphone right and that was
actually dictating the legal documents
that were then being typed up but to say
so I don't know if you noticed that
Kathy you know alright it's an
interesting set up terms have actually
issue a new paperwork
paperwork right there
so that was the opinion of the court so
to speak being a dictator than this book
but then I objected to that right plot
twist yeah I thought a dick in court
wasn't a bed full of them
[Music]
judges signed it lawyer signed papers I
objected yeah so then I got the state up
make another make another speech whose
role he's older justice right these are
all pretty brief statements for me
though and they are being translated
into Thai but I think the judges I think
both of my she understood English quite
well yeah
he stated that I would be stabbed and
you know so what I was doing there I
kind of switched tact it's early on
their point was they were very
apologetic they themselves are a bit out
to sea with these new procedures handed
down by the Supreme Court it's a new to
you they they're not proud of the way
this case is run the judges in the other
you know lawyers in the courtroom so
they're being apologetic and the main
thing they were offering me early on is
this document that we're gonna get
tomorrow a special document that sort of
I get it basically declares the during
writer is guilty as we put the documents
because they they haven't had a formal
trial but all everything in the table
and it declares that the you know the
the allegations against me should not be
believed you know by the lies against
man the in-laws so they're gonna give me
a paper of this kind which is
interesting so I thank them for that
but then and after the plot twist what I
was really playing for I was trying I
was wanting the official witness
statement to be recorded name and not to
depend on me flying back here from
Canada maybe a year from now yeah but I
just say I mean you I think you totally
got that but everyone in that room was
taking the case really seriously this is
not a joke it's not sure if this is a
serious criminal case for the two-year
sentence at the end of it the part that
everyone has trouble dating seriously is
the procedure trying to get confirmation
from the government of Australia that
you know that this is the correct
Carly Johnstone is the correct address
on that stuff so that's the part nobody
seems to be confident about their new
guidelines monogamy and our lawyer said
that it was other countries like America
were forcing
technique to do this whatever procedures
they had before were not we're not up to
international standards apparently Yeah
right
how how would even as is address if
you're the victim of a crime in Thailand
how can justice ever work if you need
someone's mailing address and their
passport against it's ridiculous
so I think to some extent they were
aware of how ridiculous that is but I
think they're also aware of some of the
kind of miscarriages of justice to
happen in the past when I think people
would just go Kenny on vacation then fly
back home country and not even realize
they've been convicted of a serious
crime they didn't get informed they
didn't get a chance to defend themselves
that the court process peace so you know
Thailand is trying to strike a balance
between some very important right that's
right this is the Kritters address right
so I was also objecting back I said no
right right right
so I did I did stand up I did sue them
and say this is a miscarriage of justice
and because this is all in simple
English that this is an injustice so I
did stand there and say that to the
judges that I pleaded my case in that
sense that this is an injustice and I
can't I can't participate it I can't
sign this form so then they ultimately
go I mean this is the calf gasp reality
right so then they issued another legal
document that I could say they should
document saying that I object to the
court proceedings that they can do long
that I've had to fly back repeatedly at
great expense so they basically
encapsulated my argument and you know
we're implicitly apologizing for it and
then I signed that so they still got my
they got my signature but not on the
opinion of the court so my objection to
the opinion of the core
is reported for the annals of history
here in Thailand all right so guys
that's that's what it is
from the nicely manicured lawns in front
of Chiang Mai provincial courthouse okay
so this is my lawyer some say this is my
girlfriend this is my other lawyer I'm
sorry I don't know he so I'm just gonna
ask you so now it's been about a year
and a half these proceedings yeah one
that we submitted kids to the court
mmm the law changed about when they
wouldn't be so somebody from abroad
submit the paper to them or their
country so I remember last time we were
here the judge gave us a guideline yeah
I'm the Supreme Court so that was
actually a new guideline is it right
yeah that the new be we did it already
right we submit to the particular ooh
take care about to send this up to
abroad okay to Australia he did it and
actually the the report from Australia
come back to Thailand okay to the
prosecutor now we know the internal
together because they call us and
whatever reason that we cannot what it
is we still cannot keep the desert Simon
to him right because he the the the name
of him odd a dread of him will not
happen in right it's not a proper one
okay but now we now we do have visitors
yeah it is super oh no okay
we still not have it be caught up in
abroad the one day gave it to us it
cannot confirm from anyone they say oh
okay yes he but that that is his house I
know that that is his house from his
girlfriend yeah so this is his real
address
yeah yeah okay she okay so with the
government they couldn't get back to the
to the clock room today
okay for us try to keep them there the
passport of him
right it's a complicated also understand
is fast of course
and yeah 104 no criminal you would never
have their face let's say that for today
have you talked to they just that baby
grin added court order from now on to
bring the case to bring the the the the
letter to the immigration to see that
whenever he came to Thailand well you
know but they we have the stamp and
Indian of that right he just came a few
weeks ago was just maybe two weeks ago
we came back to the court so maybe maybe
the delay has been so much because this
is a new system a new guideline yeah
because this is okay I just interesting
right the audio from that Supreme Court
right so this this is interesting
because the the question I have is if so
anyone commits a crime in Thailand it
seems to me it's impossible for a
foreigner to go to court or to go to
jail if they're worried about if people
you can sue from somebody or in other
countries yeah you have to know that you
understand come to fight to protect
yourself I understand that they did
whatever reason it's a it's a good
reason I understand this but if you
think about it in most cases if someone
let's just say someone Rob's me someone
commits a normal crime in Thailand how
would I get their address and how would
I get their passport right normally this
will be impossible and it's so I think
no I just say for Thailand in the future
maybe 90% of cases if a foreigner
commits a crime there can be no justice
there can be no trial right so because
in this case we were lucky it is only
because of his girlfriend one of his
girlfriends she also was angry at him
she gives me his address I know this is
the real address you know anyway right
but normally if there's a crime a baby
has
both born again it depends on the clock
right right so I think from actually I
think this will be the end of the case
because you know I've been here for
almost two year and a half being the end
okay we get the adjustment or until we
withdraw the kids out okay okay okay so
in theories like one year from now if I
am in Canada in theory you will send me
an email and say oh there is progress in
the case this is possible they'll eat
the dead for today oh poor Nick and
point me right but on between that time
we we do this for say the same hockey
the same thing but that but at the next
appointment it will still be the same
problem because you go still you will
not confirm his address you will not
confirm it we we have to the invocation
report okay can be all that they have
they can prove that this man they have
to exist in this world
okay engine my something like that okay
and the the next step is one that we
caught that we confirm the same it read
to Cornell again
okay so I thought we had done this in
the past earlier I thought we already
had a report from immigration I thought
we already had that you know Paul has
had to start again after the Supreme
Court guideline I guess yeah after the
new okay so thank you very much for
explaining this to me because this is
not an explanation I have for a bonus
Yin